---
title: first week
---

:::tip

In order to maximize your ability to learn and chances of survival, Evac shelter is recommended and
expected.

:::

While daunting, the game is a lot easier than some might think. You can do a great deal to prepare
yourself for combat, but remember the zombies always get tougher thanks to evolution. It only gets
more dangerous.

## First steps

### Makeshift crowbar

If you've started in the evac shelter, grab a rock outside and smash a locker and a bench. A
makeshift crowbar will help you open doors quietly and just takes a pipe and a tool with hammering.

### Cudgel (or other weapons)

You need a good weapon, this is usually the cudgel in the early game. If you didn't start with a
knife, you can always make a stone knife with no skills. the makeshift crowbar lacks the hit bonus
the cudgel has, which is why I recommend it. Optionally you can get a wooden spear but it takes some
character skills and a fire. A self bow and crude arrows is weak but is not a bad opener to combat,
any damage helps.

### Clothes

You likely won't start with the perfect insulation from the weather, so you need to manage your
temperature as slowdown penalties from the heat or cold will kill you quickly via slowing you down
in combat. If its too hot this is easy you just take off layers. If it's too cold you'll need to
craft what clothes you can or loot what you can but don't waste too much time on this. You'll likely
find the clothes you need.

:::note

You want to minimize how many enemies you take on at once until you learn the game and the limits of
your character, usually 1 enemy at a time is ideal

:::

## Going into town

### Tools

You can't do anything without tools. Go for an anvil, metal sawing, wood sawing, welding, and
soldering. The rest can be crafted fairly easily if you have to. The anvil is easy if you get a
hacksaw or toolbox and a car for spare frames.

### Weapons

Guns will keep you safe from the zombies through the entire game, and looting a gunstore is the
easiest way to get geared. Otherwise, better melee weapons. You want fast hitting melee weapons and
ideally a good to hit bonus unless your combat skills high enough to not worry about hitting.

### Backpack

You can't carry anything without a backpack, tailoring is the easiest way to just make one, but
otherwise keep looking for any non-encumbering container.

### Books

Books make the game a lot easier but are mainly needed for recipes. Find ones for medieval crafting,
guns, electronics, chemistry, and skills that can't be trained with crafting such as speaking or
computers.

## Cars

### Finding one

It's safe to say, you need to find a good car sooner rather than later. It will make the game a lot
easier and you will carry more loot with you. Rather than finding a broken down one, go for high
condition with relatively few destroyed parts. You may get lucky and find one fully functional. You
can find cars anywhere there is roads. You'll get most of your tools from a mechanics garage or
hardware store. Some homes may have garage tools.

### Welding

You can't do much with cars without a welder. Acetylene torches work for early game but look out for
arc welders. An electric welder is the most important longterm solution, and attaching it to your
car with a single solar panel provides unlimited welding potential. Weld before a break happens and
you won't take meaningful car damage.

### Hacksaw

Without a hacksaw you can't remove most parts. This means adding parts will be just as hard.

### Fuel

Without fuel you won't be going anywhere. Gas stations come to mind, but you can actually craft
diesel with the right book and cooking level. You can also opt for a solar car but it won't go far
and you need a lot of panels and the electric motors.

:::note

Your first week was a success if you lived long enough to loot a gun store, find a working car, and
have otherwise kept up with your survival needs.

:::

## Bonus Tasks

### Electric grid

If you made it this far you may want to set up a functioning electric grid at an evac shelter, or
just install more things onto your car. The evac shelter has a mounted battery and solar panel it
just needs an oven, electric forge, welder, soldering iron, etc. You can add wind turbines via a
vehicle on the roof connected with a jumper cable connector for even more power.

### Helicopter

Geting a helicopter isn't easy but if you stumble onto the parts you can install them on any
vehicle. Gyrocopter is a fabrication 10 option. Finding a crash means ripping apart any still
functional parts and repairing it so it can be attached to a better vehicle.

### Being brave

There is a lot of more dangerous locations, monsters, and mods that add more dangerous locations and
monsters. Labs, military bases, shipwrecks, mines, collapsed towers. You will want to explore, learn
to take on more challenges. Remember that .50 BMG and being hit by a truck solves most enemy
problems.
