---
title: "Cataclysm: Bright Nights Lore"
---

:::warning

spoilers below!

:::

# Timeline

### T-6 Years:

Drones (eyebots) used in police work.

### T-4 Years:

Personal bionics become commonplace for the wealthy, and for those withhigh-demand government
positions.

### T-3 Years:

Escalations in China and DPRK lead to a “Cold War,” with both sides highly prioritizing defense
research.

### T-3 Years:

Transposition along 4th axis discovered by DARPA researchers.

### T-3 Years:

Robotic police officers enter service in limited areas.

### T-30 Months:

4th dimensional topology mapped out. It’s found that certain areas are "lower" along the 4th axis,
allowing for relatively low-energy transposition into areas of interest.

### T-28 Months:

Collection of materials along 4th axis commences. First contamination occurs but is confined to the
two research labs with transposition equipment, and is in amounts so tiny (a few dozen molecules)
that it is not remarked upon.

### T-25 Months:

Gun control laws greatly relaxed as a result of perceived increase in public safety.

### T-20 Months:

Robotic police officers are used in 95% of police precincts.

### T-18 Months:

A new federal agency, the Xenophysical Energy Defense Research Agency (XEDRA), is created to oversee
the construction and operation of 12 new 4th axis research labs, scattered across the midwest.

Other agency names:

- HYDRA (HYperdimensional Defense Research Agency)
- ATMAR (Agency for Transitional Mechanics & Activity Research)
- APRA (Abnormal Phenomena Research Agency)

### T-16 Months:

Plasma weapons developed in response to rising threat in China, DPRK

### T-15 Months:

Increases in extradimensional research leads to collection of living samples. This notably includes
XE037 (blob). As time continues, larger and larger sub-prime monsters are retrieved.

### T-15 Months to 5 Months:

XEDRA becomes increasingly internally politicized, with different divisions competing for research
dollars, and oversight staff conflicting in their opinions regarding the direction and goals of
research.

### T-13 Months:

Short-range teleportation becomes a reality using fixed laboratory equipment.

### T-12 Months to 6 Months:

XEDRA begins storing sub-prime lifeforms, particularly XE037, and researching their potential as a
possible super-weapon.

### T-10 Months:

Massive troop movements in China and DPRK provoke deployment by USAF. For the first time in history,
a peacetime draft is instated.

### T-10 Months:

The successes of XEDRA lead to a greatly increased budgets and the construction of hundres of new
research & production facilities in appropriate areas.

### T-9 Months:

Civil unrest regarding the drafts is widespread.

### T-7 Months:

Troops begin deploying with cutting-edge bionics systems. They are, according to intelligence,
outpaced by Chinese developments.

### T-6 Months:

XEDRA gains increasingly unrestricted powers. Convicts with death sentences are used as subjects.
Later, convicts with life sentences are used as well.

### T-5 Months:

Zombifying effect of XE037 discovered.

### T-3 Months to T+0:

Civil unrest progresses into wide-scale riots. Limited martial law instated in several areas.
Deployment of robotic police is increased to maintain order.

### T-4 Months to 1 Month:

Corruption in XEDRA runs rampant and the legality of actions is frequently ignored. Due to the
perceived importance of XEDRA, and the extenuating circumstances of public unrest and riots, these
oversteps are mostly ignored.

### T-30 Days:

DPRK troop movements indicate an imminent attack. Missile launches batter South Korean port cities
and act as a show of force. In response, US troop deployment is vastly increased, resulting in a
much smaller military presence in mainland USA.

### T-15 Days:

XE037 surge occurs. XE037, a kind of sanguine hive mind, is responding to XEDRA’s probes. The surge
occurs in all teleportation facilities simultaneously. During this event, XE037 contaminates the
ground water and establishes “colonies” (slime pits). It is unknown whether Chinese/DPRK facilities
experience this surge, as it is unknown whether they possess the equipment to perform transposition
experiments.

### T-15 Days to 5 Days:

The first zombification incidents outside of labs occur. These are sometimes covered up by XEDRA;
but often they aren’t even noticed, and the zombie is dismissed as a violent rioter and re-killed.

### T-3 Days:

Merging of XE037 and insect life occurs, resulting in rapid transformations.

### T-3 Days to T+0:

A series of terrorist attacks, including dirty bombs and biological weapons, is unleashed across the
United States. NPRK & Chinese sleeper cells are expected.

### T+0:

Zombie outbreaks become widespread and critical mass is achieved; a zombie population which grows
faster than it can be contained/killed.

### T+18 Hours:

Panic sets in; deaths are rapid and widespread.

### T+36 Hours:

50% zombification or death.

### T+48 Hours:

90% zombification or death.

### T+56 Hours:

Bombing of large US cities by an unknown aggressor commences. A crippled defense infrastructure is
largely unable to respond.

### T+60 Hours:

A largely-defeated national guard retreats to fortified bunkers and air strips.

### T+72 Hours:

99% zombification or death.

### T+5 Days:

The game begins. Which mostly holds, except where it conflicts with

### Day -3:

The nation goes to high alert. Reasons are sketchy. Rumours of an imminent attack abound. News media
briefly brings up stories of a few drug fueled maniacs attacking civilians, but they are quickly
buried under speculation on a possible invasion.

### Day -2:

Speculation continues. There are rumours of a new street drug turning people into violent, brutal
killers. There are sightings of strange, large, aggressive insects in the woods, but no official
confirmation.

### Day -1:

There are suspected reports that the killers may be under the influence of a biological attack
slowly creeping it’s way through the population, turning people into killers. Others dismiss these
rumours as nonsense. The government refuses to comment, saying they are investigating and looking
into things. A portal opens in a remote field in, but the government responds quickly and suppresses
information about the event.

### Day 0:

The bombs drop. Many cities in New England are hit with high explosives. The klaxons that are
supposed to warn of an attack never sound, and the strikes appear to be precisely targeted, though
there isn’t much special about the areas they strike at first glance. In reality, several of the
smaller labs that scatter the area providing relays for the primary dimensional manipulation
experiments have experience gateways opening in the immediate area, and their machinery refusing to
shut down. Those inside have quickly been overwhelmed by extradimensional horrors. The strikes are
against labs that have been overrun, or where the resonator equipment is still functioning, and
locations believed to have opened portals. It is hoped the high energy yield of high explosives will
collapse the portals, or at least destroy the equipment that makes it possible for them to open. In
many cases, this works. In others, the strikes make things worse, changing how the portals work
instead.

From several of these strikes, the portals absorb the energy and create a larger, fluctuating rift
that allows noxious alien chemicals to billow forth in huge plumes. Those in the immediate area have
their skin blister, boil, and slough off, and the chemicals quickly enter the atmosphere. Other
areas have their portals turn into blistering infernos, or areas of extreme cold. It is hypothesized
by scientists in-the-know that disrupting the lab network has caused permanent dimensional weakness
and expanded our susceptibility not only to connections to the subprime plane, but also a number of
neighboring planes. This is all fairly meaningless to the average citizen, who is mostly under the
impression that life has turned into hell-on-earth.

Additional portals begin appearing around the world, even as the number of new portals in New
England steadily dwindles. Creatures from the surviving portals, those expanded or missed by the
bombs, begin venturing forth and slaughtering those they find. One portal expands violently, causing
an explosion that erupts a cloud of spores into the air before closing permanently. These spores
begin floating on the breeze, and several eventually find a home.

Finally, the klaxons sound, and a biological attack is announced. There is utter chaos, and many
mixed messages. The military is deployed to try to control the situation, and martial law is
declared. It is hard to ignore now that the dead rise again short afterward, and abominations roam
the streets. Many head to evac shelters and bunkers, others try to lock their doors and stay in
their homes. There is a huge migration of vehicles heading west.

As day turns to night, the first caustic rain occurs, returning the alien chemicals to earth at
great distances even as they continue to pour from the portal rifts. The deadly rain lasts for
almost 9 hours, killing most of those caught outside while evacuating.

### Day 1:

Most of the monsters die off, seemingly only able to operate within a certain distance of the
portals, before the effects of the prime plane begin causing severe degeneration. Unfortunately, the
damage has largely been done. Worse, a few find the new plane perfectly comfortable, and begin to
expand aggressively, while others such as the ooze that causes the zombies adapt to find forms that
will let them expand beyond the range of their connection to another plane.

Those who are killed by monsters, rain, or any of the other new threats to appear raise as zombies,
and even zombies that are killed with bullets or normal weapons will raise again soon afterwards.

In an effort to combat the new threats of both large amounts of undead humans and various
otherworldly horrors, the automated security forces are quickly reprogrammed to behave much more
aggressively, killing threats instead of just trying to arrest them if they were supposed to, and
adopting a much wider view of what constitutes a threat. Unfortunately, this backfires - though they
do identify the undead as a threat, and in several cases successfully engage them, the new settings
also lead them to target the human “trespassers” running the security networks, and the networked
security systems identify almost any living human as a hostile threat to be eliminated. The larger
network itself collapses shortly afterwards, leaving no way to adjust the settings back, as each
security unit - police station, military turret, autonomous hunter vehicle - reverts to independent
control operating under the last instructions received

The nation declares a national disaster, and FEMA camps are setup and a large-scale evacuation
begins, even as reports of portals opening in other locations begin to reach official ears. The
evacuation camps prove to be deathtraps, attracting the attention of deadly creatures and the
security forces who view them as “illegal homeless encampments”.

### Day 2:

National support is pulled out of New England, and the area is declared a lost cause as efforts
intensify to control the new appearances of portals throughout the rest of the US.

Acid rain occurs intermittently. The acid breaks down fairly quickly after it falls to earth, but
several portals remain open that pour the caustic material into the sky. Like a volcano, some
portals remain quiet for a while before letting forth a huge belch of a toxic cloud, while others
release a steady, uncomfortable trickle.

The first fungaloids are encountered by a small military patrol, and retreat to a nearby farmhouse
after one of the soldiers is killed by something erupting from the ground. They report the presence
of several large fungal growths, almost human height, and a haze that has settled over the area.
Fine powder seems to cover every surface within hours. By the end of the day, the spires will be
significantly larger, and the number of fungaloids surrounding the house grow endlessly in number .
The last reports from the soldiers indicate strange symptoms among the soldiers, and that fungal
growths from the engine are preventing their vehicle from starting. They are not heard from again.

Triffids, strange plant-like creatures that seem to build upon the existing root networks in local
forests, are seen growing in multiple places, having been dropped by Triffid seed-runners that
escaped through one or more portals. They quickly attune to the new landscape, and many regions of
forest begin slowly converting into triffid groves. The Triffids and Fungals seem to be related
somehow.

The giant insects begin spread as well, serving as a useful vessel for the goo, but maintaining many
of their primitive impulses. Construction begins on enormous hives, dens, and colonies.

The future government of America is sensationalist, reckless, and in many ways quite dystopian.
However, the average person’s life is pretty good, aside from the constant threat (or at least
claims of a threat) of military attacks by some foreign power (usually China or Russia) that may or
may not actually be plotting major military actions. The government has encouraged disaster
preparedness among the population, and firearm restrictions are distinctly different than they are
now. While not everyone can purchase and own a firearm, and firearm ownership is very closely
tracked, it is also actively encouraged by the government to fight off any potential invaders, and
higher caliber firearms and explosives are actually available on the civilian market.

The evac shelters were built as part of a government program to help improve both the morale of the
populace at large (by convincing them the government was looking out for them) while also increasing
the general sense of fear and danger (by convincing the populace such shelters were needed). They
approved effective at these goals. The shelters were not, however, ever actually stocked - the
funding fell out when the military realized both goals had been effectively accomplished, and no
more money needed to be wasted on them. After all, in the event that the shelters would ever
actually be needed, it is unlikely they would end up very useful - any major military attack was
unlikely to leave many survivors. Standing as empty unstocked, relatively insecure buildings on the
outskirts of the city reminding people of what could happen was the only service they were ever
actually expected to provide.

Fungals actually play a vital role in the triffid’s ecosystem, and are carried in small amounts on
most triffids. It is sometimes used by triffids to prepare an area with rich fungal remains before
the triffids move in. However, when it gets out of hand, the triffid’s respond with variants
specifically tailored to controlling and eliminating the fungus. The fungus also has an inhibitory
effect on the ooze, fighting it for dominance - this is how it can take control of infected
organisms, creating giant fungal bugs and fungal zombies. The fungus is mostly unthinking, but quite
effective at converting both enemies and the landscape into allies.

The Netherum - whether zombies, flaming eyes, kreks or migo - can best be seen as individual
specialized cells in a larger organism, like a human being, sponge or (perhaps the best analogy) a
slime mold. The ooze that infects zombies is akin to a kind of netherum stem cell, and can
eventually take many forms. As with stem cells turning into specialized cells, though, more advanced
netherum creatures like the Migo no longer have the versatility of the basic slime and are locked
into their form.

Every basic component of Netherum contains the information for every possible Netherum creature,
but, just like with DNA, the information expressed depends on a variety of environmental stimulus -
including the proximity of a sufficient amount of nearby Netherum creatures of different types. This
is not the first time the triffids and the Netherum have encountered each other.

Initially large nether creatures died quite quickly in our world if they stay far from the energies
of a portal or other subprime access point. But some of them were able to adapt to our environment
to a certain extent and gained the ability to survive far away from portals. Still hostility of
Earth 's environment limits the spread of large nether creatures. So far, no reproduction or young
versions were observed. But no one knows how long this limitation holds.

On the other hand, the more distributed version of the netherum has quickly found its niche living
within the bodies of large native organisms, improving their odds of success in multiple passive
ways, and taking full control if the organisms life ceases to restart the organism’s basic functions
under the Netherum’s control. With a protective fleshy or carapacian shield between it and the
environment, the Netherum is able to comfortably persist in our world far from the portals.

There is more than one subprime plane. The Netherum comes from a more distant plane than the
triffids and fungals, and is part of why the triffids and fungals can survive in our reality more
reliably than the Netherum.

The triffids have a strict hive like hierarchy composed of dozens if not hundreds of organisms. Each
individual organism was tweaked to a specialized task due evolution process from basic form. Despite
individual triffid creatures relying on very basic instincts, overall triffid collective acts very
efficiently and appears intelligent.

# Notes

### Note #356-92-XE

Earlier conjecture that revivification occurred only in humans was premature. Thanks to the discover
of the substances ability to revivify large canines, the properties of XE-037 in mammalian organisms
is now far more clear.

From what we can tell so far, exposure introduces a persistent, low level infection in mammal
subjects, regardless of size or nature. The substance seems to multiply within the body until it
reaches a certain point, and then enters a form of stasis and ceases to grow. It is, as yet, unknown
why this halting process occurs in mammals, but not in insects - further research is needed. The
body does not seem to attempt to combat the invader, and in fact no defenses have been noted - the
body simply ignores the presence of the substance.

The spread seems to halt at roughly 1% of body mass, though exact numbers are difficult to determine
thanks to the risk of mid-autopsy revivification.

The reason why earlier reports confined revivification to humans was that the process requires a
critical amount of XE-037 within the body, not as a percent but as pure weight. Around half a pound
seems to be enough to insure a post-mortem takeover. Animals small enough that 1% of body mass falls
below this threshold thus fail to revivify, and the infection shrinks and then dies several hours
after it’s host organism has passed. In larger animals, expiration seems to serve only to raise the
cap on XE-037 within the body - expiration quickly leads to the XE-037 breaking down many of the now
inactive bits of it’s host until it makes up almost 4% of body mass. At some point towards the end
of this process, the host organism revives in the manner we are all, by now, familiar with,
seemingly under the full control of the substance.

### Note #376-92-XE

Infected subjects that sustain extreme trauma before death seem to exhibit lower growth level in
internal XE-037, which can be lower than the expected 4%. Revivification of subjects in such cases
is slower. This lead to the conclusion that XE-037 “prefers” less damaged corpses.\
Additionally, damage beyond a certain threshold, such as the removal of several internal organs,
quartering the corpse, or exposure to high explosive or heat, seems to overwhelm the XE-037
infection, causing the same dwindling and death behaviour seen in smaller organisms.

### Note #377-92-XE

Observations that high-trauma revivification subjects are not noticeably different from low-trauma
subjects have proven to be premature. The 93-XE series of studies has been designated for
consolidating existing data and performing additional research after the labs have been repaired and
personnel replaced.

# Factions

## Blob

- The Blob, otherwise known as XE037, is a single-cellular organism formed of exotic matter
  undetectable without specialized equipment. Through reckless dimensional experimentation, XEDRA
  breached into XE037's homeworld, and exposed our world to the Blob. Evading conventional
  quarantine procedures, the Blob has entered the Earth's biosphere, spreading and infecting the
  world via water. Infection is characterised by the Blob being taken up by eukaryotic cells, in a
  similar manner as the proposed model for mitonchondria. Beings that possess a sense of self, even
  insects and animals, are relatively unaffected by the Blob, which mostly manifests in accelerated
  healing by catalysing metabolic processes when injured. A large percentage of Blob infected
  creatures, human or animal, display increased aggression and clouded judgement, a side effect of
  the integration of Blob into the brain disrupting normal brain chemistry. Humans affected in this
  way are considered "feral", though a small percentage of creatures are more resistant to these
  changes than others.

- In living hosts, the Blob is capable of restructuring the body, from simple things like increased
  muscle mass, brain matter, or thickened skin to drastic changes like rapid bone restructuring, and
  growth of organs that do not typically exist in the species. Some of these effects appear to be
  the Blob reactivating dormant phenotypes (perhaps surprisingly gills are classified under these)
  or over/under expressing certain genes, however, many of the more drastic changes seem to use DNA
  that has never existed within the species. While similar to their earth counterparts, many of
  these structures are subtly different, contributing to the theory that the Blob itself may hold a
  repository of extraterrestrial or extradimensional DNA (or some equivalent using their exotic
  material as base). Strangely, a subject's sense of self and consciousness appears to be involved
  in the transformations, and to access the more advanced mutations a subject's sense of self must
  be temporarily altered, this alteration however typically becomes permanent once the "threshold"
  has been crossed. This strange limitation of ego has casually reignited philosophical questions of
  consciousness amongst the more fringe scientists, who suggest that this could be a sign of the
  soul. Animals and insects thus far have never been observed to have the same breadth of mutations,
  it is suggested that their inability to reinvent themselves mentally contributes to this (Insert
  commentary about how humans are capable of lying to themselves).

- On death however the seemingly artificial limitations on mutation are removed. Regeneration is
  initiated, with the corpse cannibalizing itself as the Blob takes drastic steps to reanimate the
  host. The host however, is no longer in control of their body, with the Blob driving them to feed
  and survive. The mutations begin to grow ever more bizarre, the Blob hijacking the cellular makeup
  to replace normal cells with their own, repurposing the normal biology of the host toward more
  aggressive purposes (acid/spitter zombies, skeletal juggernauts, etc). The Blob in this state also
  seems capable of hijacking bionics within the body, utilizing power storage as sources of
  electrical shocks, electromagnet implants in industrial workers, or utilizing the martial art
  subroutines within Close Quarter Battle CBMs (explaining why bio-operatives seem capable of doing
  martial arts). It is theorised that the mutations integrating bionics may not be unique to
  "zombies", but would require a human with a distorted sense of self that considers the human and
  machine parts of their body to be one and the same. Testing of this was prematurely clipped by the
  Cataclysm (partially explaining the Prototype/Broken Cyborgs)

- As the Blob has no higher consciousness and no collective it cannot be fought in the conventional
  sense. However, humanity is capable of severely diminishing the threat of the Blob, at least in
  regards to reanimation. Research prior to the Cataclysm has revealed that the energy deficit
  incurred during reanimation and to some extent their activity after is sustained by nearby portal
  activity. A certain threshold of energy must be reached before reanimation is even possible,
  further explaining why only corpses of a certain size are able to reanimate. Deep underground in
  New England, a central lab exists with the largest working portal on the continent. It's
  activation was the tipping point of our dimensional instability, leading to rapid global
  reanimation of corpses and accelerated mutation where prior cases had been completely limited to
  the local area within labs and near portals. (Explaining how the Cataclysm could've gotten so out
  of control so quickly.) In the aftermath, once dimensional fatigue had settled to a more stable
  state, it now generates the portal energies needed to sustain much of the zombies throughout the
  continent. If this can be disabled, zombie activity would become much reduced, as would their
  evolution.

## Nether

- The Nethereum is a transitive plane, sequestered between realities. It is a malleable plane,
  constantly in flux as it mirrors the various worlds that it borders. The rules and constants
  between each reality vary wildly, and within the Nethereum it continuously swings between them,
  trying and failing to find a balance. The creatures within are no different, each is a reflection
  of some creature from another reality, distorted, incomplete and uncanny. Most are unintelligent
  or animalistic, incomplete snapshots. Despite this, greater, intelligent life does exist within
  the Nethereum, their forms stretching across the void with an intelligence that regards us with
  the same foreign curiosity as a child. Unfortunately, this child is so incomprehensible to us that
  any true contact would only cause madness, as they exist in accordance to concepts that make no
  logical sense, and indeed do not exist on our world. Fortunately, our world is as difficult for
  them to access as theirs is to ours, and they lack the focus and technology to ever succeed on
  their own.

- Nether creatures are immune to the Blob's control, so alien and beyond the ken of life are they
  that the Blob is unable to find purchase in their bodies. Indeed, their continued existence within
  our reality is predicated on the dimensional instability that is currently affecting Earth, and if
  the fabric of reality can be somehow stabilized many will simply die where they stand and wither
  away to nothing. A good starting point for this would be the giant portal that has formed in the
  Central Lab.

- The Nethereum itself has a strange connection to the subconscious mind of sapient life, and in
  dreams and more traumatically, while in the throes of madness, it is possible to gain glimpses of
  the Nethereum's chaotic plane. Such insights have inspired books across countless civilizations of
  eldritch horrors and creatures that haunt beyond the edge of reality. In the same way, most
  contact with the Nethereum outside of portals is mental, even with the fabric of reality degraded
  as it is. Sometimes information from beings beyond our realm, helpful or not, seeps in through
  these cracks, if one is capable of deciphering it.

- Pocket dimensions are constantly forming within the Nethereum, echoes and reflections of worlds
  far beyond our ability to percieve. Portal storms are locations where these pocket dimensions
  bleed into our own, and if the correct conduit can be created, and enough energy gathered, it
  could be possible for humanity to reach into these broken reflections to seek out technologies and
  sciences developed by othere realities. Be cautious, such dark reflections may not function as
  originally intended, and it will be defended by dark reflections of other things as well...

## Mycus

- The Mycus were once a species of parasitic brain fungus on their homeworld, taking control of
  various animals and using them to spread itself across the planet. Over time, the connection
  between brain and fungus became more and more tight knit, until eventually brain and fungus melted
  into one another, a symbiosis that subsumed their hosts and infiltrated into their very flesh.
  Their sapience was originally formed via weak telepathy between each animal they had infected, and
  since their existence they have never known the concept of individualism. There is only the Mycus.

- Spreading across the universe, the Mycus found nothing, barren planets and occasionally more
  hosts, but no other minds for them to connect to, to commune. The Mycus turned their gaze beyond
  their reality, seeking others beyond their reality. Cautious about the world beyond, they never
  opened the physical portals into blob space that would allow the Blob purchase. By luck, their
  first inhabited universe was our own, in the midst of the Cataclysm. The Mycus watched as
  civilization was sundered by the various Nether creatures and reanimated monstrosities, and
  mourned the passing of an intelligence that might have finally been their peer. Yet as they
  watched, the tiny fleshlings endured. Single fleshlings joined in communion with others, conclaves
  formed, yet were a pale shadow of their former glory, while others were lost, wandering into a
  lost world.

- The Mycus rejoiced, the intelligence must still remain, fragmented between their myriad of hosts,
  for them to be able to continue their function. If the fragments could be gathered, combined, they
  might yet survive the possibility of local dimensional collapse, and through this the Mycus would
  achieve Communion. They gathered their spores, readied their portals, and sent forth a legion of
  spores into the Nethereum, toward humanity. Any of their flesh hosts would not be able to survive
  the journey, but the spores would, even if many would be lost in the tumultous expanse all that
  was needed was a single main node. The Mycus would grow.

- The goal of the Mycus is at its heart, altruistic, it wants to make humanity whole again.
  Unfortunately it has no understanding of individuality, and does not understand that humanity is
  not a hive mind like itself but a collection of individual minds working together (or against one
  another). It's approach toward individual humans is much like the way one would treat a baby or
  frightened animal, it believes we have been fractured so badly that we no longer have the
  intelligence to comprehend it and have been reduced to hiding from the many monsters in our new
  world. It thus entices individuals and conclaves with fruit and the soothing promise of communion.
  It forgives humanity for attacking it and refusing communion because we just don't know any
  better.

- The Mycus is capable of subverting the blob, but only partially. As the blob is inhibited by a
  creature's sense of self, a Mycus infection uses the Mycus' own presence to take control of the
  body. This is only temporary, and as a result the Mycus weakens the zombies it infects to dispose
  of them more permanently later.

- The player should have several ways of dealing with this. The first is the obvious solution, to
  burn the Mycus to the ground, there is no Queen that controls the Mycus in its totality, but the
  destruction of groves, towers, and similar terrain will prevent the Mycus from properly regrouping
  or replenishing their numbers. Another method is for the player that decides humanity's collective
  mind is best given to the Mycus, so that they may bring it back to their world where it will live
  with the Mycus forever more, all differences erased. The final solution is that of diplomacy, to
  explain to the Mycus what it means to be an individual, and convince it that each person is a
  precious, individual mind instead of a receptacle. If this can be achieved, the Mycus may be
  persuaded to aid humanity in saving their home. Such aid could come in the form of allied
  companions, skills loaded into one's mind, or perhaps, the ability to bring an individual anew
  into the world by melding with their body before it is lost to the Blob.

## Migo

- The Migo are a species of carapace covered humanoids with what appears to be an eusocial caste
  system. Each individual is uniquely adapted to it's station, and if a unit is needed for a
  specific station a worker drone would be elevated to the appropriate position and properly
  augmented, though it would appear that such specialization is permanent. Their society is built on
  an ironclad sense of responsibility to the perpetuation of their species. Each Migo has a
  rudimentary telepathic bond with nearby Migo, allowing them to exchange thoughts and emotions but
  not memories, despite this they lack a true ego and will do anything up to and including
  self-sacrifice if it serves their interests as a whole.

- Migo technology is highly advanced but bio-mechanically engineered, and cannot be directly used by
  non-migo. However, the underlying mechanisms and science can be replicated with the right
  materials and knowhow, allowing one with the appropriate knowledge to turn their weapons and
  technology onto their makers, whether this is resin production and manipulation or the
  reconstruction of their "slaver beams" all their technology is repurposable. Their bodies do not
  tolerate cold well, and generally function best in what would be charitably described as a sauna
  for humanity.

- In the distant past a group of Migo were stranded in the ice caps due to a failed dimensional
  jump. Prior to the Cataclysm the craft's remnants and a few migo stuck in stasis, were recovered
  by the group that would eventually become Xedra. The incomplete workings of the dimensional drive
  they used filled in gaps into the study of space and dimensional travel, though humanity is still
  a long way from the controlled travel that the migo themselves seem capable of now. Unbecknowst to
  them, meddling with the craft sent out a distress call, which called the Migo toward humanity.

- When the Migo arrived, they originally were meant to function in secret, gathering information on
  humanity to assess their threat level to the Migo and provide countermeasures should they ever
  breach into true dimensional travel. It was during this operation that the Cataclysm began. In the
  ensuing chaos it became abundantly clear to the Migo that humanity had been compromised by an
  extradimensional threat. By performing their own research and a few targeted raids they came to
  the conclusion that the Blob had infected the world and by extension, them.

- The current migo contingent has quarantined itself on Earth, and is currently looking to
  investigate the blob and how it infects humanity. If possible, the Migo would prefer to have the
  Blob fully analyzed, with the ability to purge it from themselves while keeping samples that they
  might engineer for the species own benefit in the future. The blob has fully infiltrated the Migo,
  but they have managed a rudimentary safeguard that prevents reanimation of their corpses upon
  death by blocking out the dimensional energies needed for proper reanimation. As this is adapted
  to migo physiology, it's unlikely to be usable for humanity.

- The Migo do not resent humanity for its role in experimenting on it's soldier units, as a society
  they are unable to hate due to a lack of ego and thus personal investment in their enemy is
  anathema. Despite this, the experimentation and mental instability displayed by remaining humans
  has caused them to classify humanity as a threat to the Migo, and actions will be taken to prevent
  humanity from threatening their home and their people.

## Triffids

- The triffids are a species of humanoid plants, but it is more accurate to consider them an
  ecosystem unto themselves. The core of this ecosystem is the Triffid Heart, from it, a forest
  springs forth that creates the various triffid warriors, queens and other members of their ranks.
  Despite appearances, they are not sapient, in fact, it is difficult to say if the Triffids are
  even sentient. The triffid ecosystem functions entirely on instinct, it's only purpose is to
  consume, grow, and propagate to another planet to continue the cycle. To this end, it's various
  guardians roam about gathering materials to feed the construction of a biological cannon capable
  of launching a new heart into space.

- Each stimuli triggers a response from the Triffid heart, causing it to pull blueprints and
  engineer instinctive responses into the next batch of guardians. The existence of fungus opponents
  triggers fungicidal guardians, while contact with the blob seems to have caused them to gain some
  kind of resistance to them. It is unknown how the Triffid could have come to possess such a
  feature, but if the speculation that the Triffids are a biological machine created by an alien
  faction are correct, then it suggests that this alien faction has had contact with the Blob
  before. Whether it's downfall was precipitated by the Blob or not, it suggests that the Triffid's
  creators were well aware of the risks the Blob can introduce into biological organisms.

- Some scholars speculate that the Triffid Heart was the final time capsule of a dying race,
  designed to seed worlds with information for those advanced enough to learn it. The Triffid Heart
  is thus of much interest, it could contain incalculable knowledge, whether in regards to the blob,
  the nether, blueprints for weapons or the "magic" that the Triffid Queen wields, or perhaps other
  biological catalysts that could be of use to humanity.
